.TH CG-LINEAR 1 CG-TOOLS
.SH NAME
cg-linear - Create a span where adjustments are over unencodec RGB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cg-linear
.RB [ \-M
.IR method ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR site ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR crtc "]... ["\fB\-R\fP
.IR rule-base ]
.RB ( \-x
|
.RB \-p
.IB start-priority : stop-priority
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \+rgb ])
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cg-linear
adds two filters to the CLUT, one filter that converts
all stops to unencoded RGB, and a second filter that
converts all stops to encodec RGB.
.P
Note that if this is applied multiple times, values
can be doubly encoded and doubly decode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \+r
Ignore the red channel.
.TP
.BR \+g
Ignore the green channel.
.TP
.BR \+b
Ignore the blue channel.
.TP
.BR \-c " "\fIcrtc\fP
Apply the filter to the CRTC with the monitor whose EDID is
.IR crtc .
By default, the filter is applied to all monitors.

If
.I crtc
is
.RB ' ? ',
all available CRTC's are listed.
.TP
.B \-d
Keep the process alive and remove the filter on death.
.TP
.BR \-M " "\fImethod\fP
Adjustment method name or number. Recognised names include:

.nf
\fBdummy\fP      Dummy method
\fBrandr\fP      X RAndR
\fBvidmode\fP    X VidMode
\fBdrm\fP        Linux DRM
\fBgdi\fP        Windows GDI
\fBquartz\fP     Quartz Core Graphics
.fi

The adjustment methods are supported via
.BR libgamma (7).
Only methods that were enabled when
.B libgamma
was compiled will be supported.

If
.I method
is
.RB ' ? ',
all available adjustment methods are printed.
.TP
.BR \-p " "\fIstart-priority\fP\fB:\fP\fIstop-priority\fP
Set the priority of the linearisation filter to
.IR start-priority ,
and the priority of the delinearisation filter to
.IR stop-priority.
Filters with lower priority are applied before filters with
higher priority. The value must be a signed 64-bit integer
(between -9223372036854775807 and 9223372036854775808).
.TP
.BR \-R " "\fIrule-base\fP
Set the rule base of of the filters to
.IR rule-base . ':start' and ':stop' is appended to the
linearisation filter's rule and delinearisation filter's rule,
respectively. The rule is the last part of the filter's
identifier (class). The default rule is
.BR standard .

If
.I rule
is
.RB ' ? '
the utility's default rule vase is printed. If
.I rule
is
.RB ' ?? '
the utility's default classes is printed. The first printed
class is for the linearisation filter, and the second printed
class is for the delinearisation filter.
.TP
.BR \-S " "\fIsite\fP
Select the site to which to connect. For example
.RB ' :0 ',
for local display 0 when using
.BR X .
.TP
.B \-x
Remove the currently applied filter.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cg-tools (7)
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/maandree/cg-tools/issues
or to maandree@kth.se
